Create 2020-12-16-solidity-0.7.6-release-announcement.md (#117)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2020-12-17-solidity-0.7.6-release-announcement.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity 0.7.6 Release Announcement'
date: '2020-12-17'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

[Solidity v0.7.6](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.7.6) adds better support for calldata types. Furthermore, the fallback function can now have parameters and return variables. 

## Notable New Features

### Better Support for Calldata Types

> Since Solidity 0.6.9 you can already use ``calldata`` as a data location specifier for all variables instead

Reviewer: Also parameters in public and internal functions. Maybe we should write something like `more variables than just external function parameters'

                // The copy in memory will be writable.
                executeJob(_jobs[i]);
        }
        function executeJob(Job memory _job) internal {
            _job.executed = true;
        }
    }

### Parameters and Return Variables for the Fallback Function

The fallback function can now have a single parameter and a return variable to operate on the low-level data.
The input paramater is essentially an alias for ``msg.data`` while the return variable
will be returned as a raw byte array without abi encoding.

::

    // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
    pragma solidity ^0.7.6;
    pragma abicoder v2;

    contract Proxy {
        address target;
        fallback(bytes calldata _input) external returns (bytes memory) {
            (bool success, bytes memory result) = target.delegatecall(_input);
            if (success)
                // A byte array returned from the fallback function will
                // not be ABI-encoded. If you want to return structured
                // data, you have to use ``return abi.encode(x, y)``;
                return result;
            else
                revert(result);
        }
    }

### Dynamically Load Z3 if Available

> We changed the "static" binary for Linux to be mostly static:
> It only requires ... as libraries. Furthermore, if ``libz3.so`` is available on your system,
> it will be loaded so that it can be used for the SMT checker. The compiler will still run if it is not available, though.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The "static" Linux binary is now linked dynamically with ``glibc`` which allows it to load ``libz3.so`` if it is available
in your system or simply disable SMTChecker if it is not.
Until this release the Linux binary was completely static and came with the SMT features permanently disabled.
```
